There are some good things about FM 2015 which might make it interesting for someone who has never played the series before. For me, as a pretty hardcore player, I feel like I'm in a vicious circle just feeding my malcontent about the game, but cannot break my addiction. And hell, I've had many spells of FM addiction throughout the last fifteen years, but they are only truly rewarding when I feel I can make a difference with my particular style of play. And my preferred scenario is the lower league model, excessive scouting, wheeler dealer kind of approach, which is worth very little in 2015. The thing that works the least, for me, is that I don't feel I can truly play the game the way I would want to play it. My expectation is that somehow getting a few amazing players in a League 2 or Conference team should show. But whether it shows or not depends on chance, player ratings are very position dependent, with central midfielders taking the runt of bad ratings, however amazing they may seem. So I might spend hours searching for the coolest prospects I can find, fishing for work permits for my non-eu conquests, but getting phenomenal players on a mediocre squad matters very little. The general feeling is of a wooden game. Bizarre things happen which seem to defy reason. Some are buggy, like goalkeeper reactions, some are fixable via lengthy tactical tinkering, like defending corners, and others are the worst of all: monotonous. Long distance goals? Maybe on TV. A fast player outrunning a defender unless the latter fumbles it? Keep dreaming. Half competent goalkeepers seem harder to find than the proverbial needle. And then there's an aggressive randomness to how a team behaves and matches unfold. My "concede within the first ten minutes syndrome" seems unshakable. I am not saying it cannot be done, but the feeling is that it is something that needs to be fixed from the get go, rather than something that should be reasonably fine under normal conditions, like corners. And when there's a huge quality gap between your players and the opposition, it all gets hard to fathom. So why have I played hundreds of hours of this? On the one hand, the addiction. On the other, that elusive feeling when things actually do go right and you win an amzing match. But I am left frustrated because FM seems to be going nowhere, the development of the game fails to address key issues year after year. A balanced match engine. A bit of flair and a bit of the unexpected. Some character and individuality to the players. Unbiased ratings. Consistency and logic in the transfer system. Of course it's not easy and there's a lot of back and forth in trying to get it all together, but considering the heritage of this series, I cannot avoid a distinct sensation of complacency, padded with the occasional UI revamp or a couple of shiny new features. Bottom line: if you have not played this yet, maybe wait it out some more, like until SI decide to take the bull by the horns and create another classic. There are many people who enjoy working on this game and its database is a treasure trove, an inimitable advantage for anyone interested in joining the fray. The risk with taking it up is that even if you get it for free, time costs incurred are not worth the experience and chances are your passion for football will be your downfall, in spite of this.
I have played every iteration of the Football Manager series, long before I even used Steam and I have to say that Football Manager 2015 has some of the most glaring issues I have seen within the series. Manager customization has been inserted and is a step in the right direction, but not entirely. So, you will get to "customize" the stats of your manager. Are you more laid back or more technical? The option to customize and edit stats as such as adaptability and understand of things like attacking, defensive, etc are there. However, i don't entirely know what impact they have on the game as In my 9 hours of playing I haven't really noticed it or came across them again. I also do not know if these stats improve or worsen over time, depending on what you do - as the game does not tell you, even in the very brief tutorials. The new user interface layout is amazing and is long overdue. I actually found that I stopped playing Football Manager 2014 because of the UI. It was clunky, it was a mess and I had no idea where anything was. It was all just text and drop down menu's. Now there is a nice sidebar which provides links that take you to the most important and most used parts of the game as such as tactics, scouting, team, etc. Purchasing players is odd this year. Sometimes it is extremely easy to buy a player and others extremely difficult, for no reason - even if you are trying to purchase an already transfer listed player or a reserve player getting no games at his current club. The old "Let me pay 100m on a 48 month deal" STILL works. You can buy any player that wants to come to your club if you use this method and it totally breaks the entire game. My biggest gripe and the sole reason why I need to give a bad recommendation to this game: The AI and the match engine. The AI in Football Manager 2015 is the worst I have ever seen in the series. If you actually sit and watch the match unfold you will see some of the following: - Players running for a ball and stopping for no reason - The goalkeeper saving the ball, standing back and staring at the ball, which is touching his feet - A Player will chase the ball down the wing at full speed, slow down and allow a opposing team player to catch up and take the ball. - Opposing team player has the ball and stands still. All of your players are polite enough to let him stand still. - Outrages tackles: Ball is moving out of your box, opposing striker is running out of your box. There is no threat. Defender will slide tackle him as he is leaving the box and give away a penalty. - CB's that seem to play as strikers, leaving entire gaps in your defence. Red cards, injuries and own goals - EVERYWHERE. I have not went through a game yet where there has not been at least one own goal either by my team or the opposing team. They are everywhere. Red cards and injuries happen in abundance - I have had 10 players injured within the first month of a season even though I had average training and not too many games in quick succession. Tactics do not work as they are intended. If you sit down and take the time to read and learn how to create tactics, you will be so frustrated. The game gives you descriptions of what each position and instruction does, in depth. This is great. However, they do not work as they say. Short passing, retaining position and not punting the ball up the park? Team constantly just fires the ball all over the park with next to no short passing. Push higher up the park? Team sits deep. Because of these issues, scorelines can be ridiculous. In my first 5 games of the season there was a combined number of 30 goals between me and the other team. My first game finished 5-4 and my second was 6-3. This all leads to a very frustrating experience overall. Every year SI always say "we are improving the match engine". Where are these improvements? I have not seen any improvements, just more bugs and terrible AI. I love this series and I am a huge football fan, but I feel obliged to tell fellow consumers not to purchase this product until it vastly improves.
I've been a huge fan of FM going way back before the big split that led to Championship Manager and Football Manager. Since I started this game, I've won the league once and the treble in another season. I'm in my fourth season. So it's not like I'm whinging because I can't win. But there is clearly something wrong with the matchday engine. The most succinct way I can put it is that it's like they've decided Brazil vs Germany from the last WC is commonplace. I'll keep 8 straight clean sheets (or something like that) then get beaten by a promoted side 6-0, or 7-5! What's more, I've noticed other games in the league finishing 8-6, and stuff like that. Since I started counting, in three seasons I've seen goalkeepers chipped from the touchline or from inside the defending half 27 TIMES!!! The game needs a lot of work. It's a winning franchise; so, all they need to do is fix it. But don't spend your money on it until they do. They have released a very dodgy product. I've never seen an FM release like it. Just makes the game seem ridiculous, even when you're winning. And that's not why people play this game, right?
Too realistic. My arsenal team is getting too many injuries.